

Complicating factors:
Poverty Level
Urban vs. rural


PROJECTS
Based in New York, DonorsChoose has taken off in the state, perhaps due to press coverage and a concentration of high-poverty schools. From 2008 to 2013, teachers in the state proposed 54,900 projects for every 100,000 students in the New York public school system. Compare that with neighboring Vermont, which had the lowest rate, 39 projects per 100,000 students.

New York has the fifth highest funding success rate, at 76 percent. States in the American South make up four of the five least funded states, despite high project request rates. South Carolina has the lowest funding success rate, at 56 percent, compared to the national avearge of 69 percent funding success.

Proposing a project in Arkansas can be frustrating or exhilirating, depending on what class your happen to teach. Math and science requests receive full funding 83 percent of the time, America's highest success rate in that category. Arkansas might be likely to joing other Southern states, which make up four out of the five least-funded overall in the nation. But the Walton Family Foundation, run by the owners of Walmart, have partnered with organizations to fund hundreds of thosands of dollars in proposals across the state. Teachers eagerly took advantage of the incentive--Arkansas is the only state where math and science outnumbered literacy and languag requests. But at 48 percent, the state's special needs success rate is the second-lowest in the nation, and the health and sports success rate of 51 percent is America's lowest.  

Donors generally trust teachers when it comes to what kind of resources students needs. There seems to be a slight reluctance when it comes to funding Applied Learning requests, a category that includes early childhood development, college preparatory materials and technology such as iPads and computers. Despite being the fourth most requested category, donors were least likely to fund Applied Learning materials. Among states, Nebraska was least likely to fund Applied Learning projects (47%) while Alaska was the highest (77%). Overall, Music and Arts requests were most likely to be funded.

Teachers and donors aren't totally in lockstep when it comes to what kind of resources students need. Applied learning materials are the fourth most common request, but they're the least 


L Funded Overall - SC
M Funded Overall - HI
L Project Proposals Per Student - VT
M Project Proposals Per Student - NY

M Literacy and Lanuage - NH
M Math and Science - AR
L Math and Science - AL
L Applied Learning - NE
M Applied Learning - AK
M Special Needs - CT
L Health & Sports - AR


Questions
What sort of request gets categorized as Applied Learning?
How do these results compare to NAEP scores?



Graphic: Five Surprising Stories from DonorsChoose Data


INTRO Gave us access to the data. Future of education.

1. It’s Good to Be a Student in New York
Well, at least if your teacher uses DonorsChoose. Based in Manhattan, DonorsChoose has taken off across its home state, perhaps due to press coverage and concentrations of high-poverty schools, which are more likely to receive funding. From 2008 to 2013, teachers in the state proposed 54,900 projects for every 100,000 students in the New York public school system. Compare that with neighboring Vermont, which had the lowest rate, 39 projects per 100,000 students. New York also has the country’s fifth highest overall funding rate, at 76 percent.

2. Arkansas is All Over the Place
Proposing a project in Arkansas can be crapshoot or a done deal, depending on what class your happen to teach. Math and science requests received full funding 83 percent of the time, America's highest success rate in that category. But at 48 percent, the state's special needs success rate is the second-lowest in the nation, and the health and sports success rate of 51 percent is America's lowest.

One large reason for the disparity is the Walton Family Foundation, run by the owners of Walmart. Over the past five years, the organization has directly and indirectly funded hundreds of thousands of dollars in proposals across Arkansas. Teachers have taken advantage of the matching offer incentives--Arkansas is the only state where math and science outnumbered literacy and language requests. 

TK: WHY MATH AND SCIENCE?

3. Not Everyone’s Gung-ho on iPads in Classrooms
Donors generally trust teachers when it comes to what kind of resources students needs. There seems to be a slight reluctance when it comes to funding Applied Learning requests, a broad category that includes early childhood development, college preparatory materials and technology such as tablets and computers. Despite being the fourth most requested category, donors were least likely to fund Applied Learning materials. 

At the state level, Nebraska was the least enthusiastic about Applied Learning proposals (47 percent funded). At the other end of the scale, Alaska embraced the subject more than another state, funding 77 percent of requests. Across categories, Music and Arts projects were most likely to be funded.

TK: IS THE APATHY ACTUALLY COMING FROM BIG TECH REQUESTS?

4. Literacy and Language Are a Tough Sell in the South
Eight of the nation’s ten least-funded states for literacy and language sit below the Mason-Dixon line. Much of this can be attributed to a overall lack of funding in the region. Except for Arkansas, every Southern state falls short of the national average for funding success. Still, literacy and language regularly gets the raw end of the deal, as the subject’s success rate in Southern states is almost always below those states’ average success rate.

5. DonorsChoose Is a Remarkably Successful Funding Machine
“Kickstarter for teachers” may be the easiest way to describe DonorsChoose, but there’s one big difference: Sixty-nine percent of projects on the site are funded, versus a forty-four percent project success rate on Kickstarter. And as the organization has used data to determine what makes a good pitch, that percentage has increased. In 2013, 72 percent of projects got the greenlight.